---
layout: post-default
title:  "Twirl Me"
date:   2024-04-04
categories: design
lead: "Sharing more, sharing broadly"
image: 
---

<div style="margin: 0 auto; text-align:center;padding:45px 0;">
<h1>{{ page.title }}</h1>
<em>{{ page.lead }}</em>
</div>

> "Please twirl me one more time, and don't stop spinning me
Please swirl me in your mind, so I can be a colored painting that you'll look upon
Spin spin with me..."

## Should sharing be as light and swift as an arrow or a bombast and crushing as a cannon ball?

I'm thinking this morning about how I share the things I share. I am probably like everyone else where when I see something I like, I have an urge to share it with others. Maybe that's just me being very extroverted. Nonetheless, I've been wondering why sharing matters or if sharing is really just a self-satisfaction, small dopamine hit type thing. I really don't know the science and I haven't done any research to understand it. I only know how it affects me and it feels good.

Right now, I mostly share a small sliver of what I find cool with a select group of friends. Each one of them has a type or category in which I share things. I don't share skateboarding things with my partner, for example, but I do share a lot of child rearing things and political/social economic articles and insights.

I really like to share. I like to be open about what I find. Many years ago, I had a tumblr where I put stuff. It was in the early days of people eagerly posting anything and everything on the internet. Most of the stuff I posted was crap, so I'm not even going to share a link.

I'm meandering.

## Cannon Ball!

Maybe I should share here? Maybe I should make this a newsletter or a substack? I could tell people what caught my eye. I could talk about content design and art and good music. Maybe it could be Jennings' playlist?

My friend tells me that sharing playlists helps our music algorithms not go stale. I wonder if I can share one here. One sec.

I can't. I can only share the [https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLxT4Ajv3-F0nyXCyJEGa148JOm3\_fZKig&si=vLCmWidxJwayCKc1\].

## Gonna try it

I'll start by sharing way too much here. We'll see how this goes.